Joe Biden leaves the White House on an
unprecedented Journey a US president
traveling to Israel as it wages
War the prime intention to visibly
demonstrate us support in the most
dramatic of
ways he goes with the full backing of
Congress the US Senate at work to push
through a bill providing material Aid to
Israel as well as humanitarian relief
for Palestinians the Senate must above
all work quickly and swiftly to draft
consider and pass a strong Aid package
for Israel as soon as we can that
includes Military Support intelligence
support diplomatic help the Senate
minority leader adds other elements to
the presidential to-do list he needs to
make it clear that his administration
will do everything possible to keep
Israel the time and the space it needs
to conduct the required military
operations for as long as it takes how
many more hold out sir the house is
still in turmoil with majority
Republican sharply divided over ideology
leadership and policy yet amidst this
division there is one point of agreement
among all support for the state of
Israel well I think the resolution first
to show that the American people through
their representatives support Israel and
condemn Hamas and these Terror attacks
the deadline to refunding the government
is f approaching but for most
Republicans the priority is to get a
pro-israel bill through the house this
on top of the $3.3 billion a year that
Congress has never
contested the US was the first country
in the world to recognize Israel the
recognition by President Truman coming
only 11 minutes after the provisional
government declared statehood on May the
14th
1948 and President Biden is likely to
point to the drive to pass an Israel
bill in the Senate and the house as
clear evidence that recognition and
support has never wavered Mike Hannah
aljazera
Washington now President Biden has also
reacted to Tuesday's attack in a
statement he says he is outraged and
deeply saddened by the exposion at Al
Ali Hospital in Gaza and the terrible
loss of life that resulted he goes on to
say the US stands unequivocally for the
protection of civilian life during the
conflict our correspondent Alan Fischer
is in Tel Aviv for us so Alan this
Hospital strike has thrown Biden's atiny
into disarray what's his plan now after
he lands in Tel Aviv in a few hours
time well his intention of course was to
come and act as an onest broker to show
support for Israel which he's done since
hours after the Hamas attack but also
urge them to take care when it comes to
their operations in Gaza to minimize the
humanitarian uh impact that it has that
argument has been made a lot easier
after what happened in the hospital and
Joe Biden has instructed his National
Security team to carry out their own
investigation to find out exactly what
happened he sees this is hugely
important the Israelis of course have
already decided that they weren't
responsible for this but clearly he's
flying into a situation that's a lot
more volatile than he expected uh but it
may may just strengthen his hand when he
goes to argue with the Israelis that
there is a danger that an extended
operation in Gaza would leak Global
public support that they they had
immediately after what happened 10 days
ago but and now that Jordan has
cancelled this Summit with Egypt the
Palestinian uh president Mahmud Abbas
how does that affect Biden's credibility
as an honest broker
here it it's embarrassing and it's a
setback Joe Biden believes that when he
gets people in the room he can negotiate
he can get people to come together
that's just disappeared because when was
the last time you heard of someone
walking away from a meeting with the
president of the United States and
that's exactly what the jordanians the
Egyptians and the Palestinians have done
now the White House is putting a spin on
it they understand the need to mourn
those who died but this is embarrassing
there's no doubt about it and it
certainly hinders his ability to do he
was going to do which was active inh
handed visit Israel then travel to
Jordan for his his his Tri country
Summit so it becomes a lot more
difficult he will speak to Mahmud abas
and president CeCe of Egypt on his
journey home but this is a long way to
come to show support for Israel when at
the end might be struggling to show
anything for it Alan on Tuesday SE say
Anthony blink was talking about a
humanitarian plan an aid plan what
happens to that now
well of course it's all been given to
David saterfield who is the the new
presidential Envoy the special Envoy to
deal with humanitarian Affairs and he's
trying to set up some sort of first of
all safe Corridor but also to make sure
that International Aid gets in uh to
Gaza that now becomes uh a bigger task
for him uh again it's hard to know how
the dynamic of what's Happening in the
hospital will change things uh but it
might make things easier to try and get
International Aid into the Gaza Strip
because the
Israelis while denying that they were
responsible have undoubtedly been rocked
back on their Heels by the international
reaction to what happened in Gaza uh
late on Wednesday night okay Alan fer
joining us there from Tel Aviv thanks
very much Alan